= Vortex Client

A set of utilities for managing content in the web content management system "Vortex":http://www.usit.uio.no/it/vortex/.
All operations are done by using the webdav protocol.


= Publishing content

To publish an article.

   require 'rubygems'
   require 'vortex_client'

   vortex = Vortex::Connection.new("https://www-dav.server.com")
   vortex.cd("/news/")
   article = Vortex::StructuredArticle.new(:title => "My title", :introduction => "Lorem ipsum")
   vortex.publish(article)

Running the script.

   $ ruby publish.rb
   Username: thomasfl
   Password: *****

An article should now be published to "https://www-dav.server.com/news/my-title.html".

= Creating folders (collections)

To create a folder named "2010" in the "/news/" folder.

   require 'rubygems'
   require 'vortex_client'

   vortex = Vortex::Connection.new("https://www-dav.server.com")
   vortex.cd("/news/")
   collection = Vortex::ArticleListingCollection.new(:title => "News for 2009", :foldername => "2009")
   vortex.create(collection)

= Documentation

RDoc: http://rdoc.info/projects/thomasfl/vortex_client/

= Installation

On most setups you simply do:

  sudo gem install vortex_client

If your'e having problems installing the xml parser nokogiri on is x:  http://wiki.github.com/tenderlove/nokogiri/what-to-do-if-libxml2-is-being-a-jerk
Also how to compile ruby 1.9.1 on os x http://wonko.com/post/how-to-compile-ruby-191
On ubuntu openssl can be an issue http://blog.maxaller.name/2009/02/ruby-19-and-openssl-on-ubuntu/

= Using KeyChain authentication on OS X

To retrieve password from KeyChain on OS X, use the option :osx_keychain => true.

   vortex = Vortex::Connection.new("https://www-dav.server.com", :osx_keychain => true)

When running for the first time, ruby prompts for the password. Username must be
the same both locally and on the server.

   Password not found on OS X KeyChain.
   Enter password to store new password on OS X KeyChain.
   Password: *****
   Password for 'tiger' on 'www-dav.server.com' stored on OS X KeyChain.

The next time the script is executed, ruby won't prompt for username or password.

KeyChain authentication requires 'osx_keychain' and 'RubyInline' gem.

To install:

   $ sudo gem install RubyInline
   $ sudo gem install osx_keychain


== Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but
   bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009 Thomas Flemming. See LICENSE for details.
